Internet of Things Semantic Arduino-based Sensor Device Prototype.

The device prototype is a open software and open hardware that implements RFC 7252 Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) for devices with limited resources to bring Semantic Technologies to the world of the Internet of Things (IoT). Like HTTP for small devices, CoAP is based on the REST model: servers make resources available under a URL, and clients access these resources using methods such as GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE via UDP.
The main developing library is called microcoap. Microcoap is a small CoAP implementation for microcontrollers, such as Arduino boards. CoAP GET, PUT, POST and DELETE methods are already avaliable in the microcoap implementation. The resource subscribe option, appropriate endpoints setup and additional fixes (such as full-fledged CoAP clients support), which are developing in the project, are required.
The hardware is also developing to provide the full testing experience. Current prototype is based on the Arduino MEGA 2560 with connected ESP8266 WiFi-Module and DHT11 temperature and humidity sensor. The additional fixes for the ESP8266 Arduino library are also adding during developing.
The device prototype is developing in the context of SemIoT project (http://semiot.ru). The future plans list contains a task to develop addition wireless device configurator (a mobile app that provides devices configuration option).
Semantic technologies for Internet of Things Project (SemIoT) of Laboratory ISST dedicated to the development of the prototype scalable service-oriented software and hardware platform based on wireless sensor networks and agent-based, semantic web technologies and cloud computing in order to aggregation, normalization, analysis and visualization of large amounts of heterogeneous structured, semi-structured and unstructured data in a distributed network of electronic consumer devices (Internet of Things). SemIoT project is funded by a grant under the Russian Federal Target Program "Research and development in priority areas of scientific and technological complex of Russia for 2014-2020".